MDAKits post (#242)
MDAnalysis/MDAnalysis.github.io: _posts/2022-08-22-mdakits-intro.md

---
layout: post
title: MDAKits
---

As part of our [CZI EOSS 4 grant]({% post_url 2021-08-31-CZI-EOSS4 %})
we announced the **MDAKits ecosystem**. In this post we want to make
our plans more concrete and solicit feedback from the community.

We produced a *White Paper* named **MDAKits: Supporting and promoting
the development of community packages leveraging the MDAnalysis
library [v0.1.0]**, available as a PDF at DOI
[10.6084/m9.figshare.20520726.v1][]
where you can read the details that go beyond the outline provided in
this post.

## What is an MDAKit?

> An MDAKit contains code based on MDAnalysis that solves a specific
> scientific problems or in some form enhances the MDAnalysis core
> library. An MDAKit can be written by anyone and hosted
> anywhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An MDAKit is a package containing code based on MDAnalysis that solves a specific
scientific problems or in some form enhances the MDAnalysis core
library. An MDAKit can be written by anyone and hosted
anywhere.
```

started creating your own MDAKit:

### MDAKit project template

Our first tool is the
[**cookiecutter-mdakit**](https://github.com/MDAnalysis/cookiecutter-mdakit),
a [cookiecutter](https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter) template
that generates a **skeleton project** that implements our recommended
best practices. With [`cookiecutter`
installed](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html#install-cookiecutter),
execute the following command inside the folder you want to create the
skeletal repository

```bash
cookiecutter gh:MDAnalysis/cookiecutter-mdakit
```

Follow the prompts or hit enter for the default options. 

Then add your own code to the project. Add tests --- you can extend
the example tests in the template that are suitable for
MDAnalysis-based. Commit and push your changes.

<small>(The MDAKit cookiecutter is based off the [Cookiecutter for
Computational Molecular Sciences (CMS) Python
Packages](https://github.com/MolSSI/cookiecutter-cms) by Levi N. Naden
and Jessica A. Nash from the [Molecular Sciences Software Institute
(MolSSI)](http://molssi.org/) and Daniel G. A. Smith of
[ENTOS](https://www.entos.ai/). Thank you!)</small>

> ### Registering an MDAKit

Reviewer: We shouldn't advertise this yet please. We can't go into production with what we have currently, it'll just cause chaos.

Author: Ok, good that you reviewed ;-)

can you complete your changes—you’re the one who knows best what should be here.

> If you want to **register your MDAKit** then create a pull request to
> add a meta data entry `metadata.yaml` to [MDAnalysis:
> MDAKits/mdakits/<YOUR MDAKIT NAME>](https://github.com/MDAnalysis/MDAKits/tree/main/mdakits)
> (where you fill also find a template to get you started). Your PR will
> be reviewed for compliance with the requirements (for right now, see the [White
> Paper][10.6084/m9.figshare.20520726.v1] for specifics). Once
> registered, your MDAKit will be continuously tested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding packages to the **MDAKit registry** will happen by opening a pull request against the [mdakits repository](https://github.com/MDAnalysis/MDAKits/tree/main/mdakits). Briefly, the process will involve adding a small YAML file with details of the MDAKit we are still ironing out the exact details of the registration process, and will open the process for public participation in the near future.
(where you fill also find a template to get you started). Your PR will..... (continue here please)
be reviewed for compliance with the requirements (for right now, see the [White
Paper][10.6084/m9.figshare.20520726.v1] for specifics). Once
registered, your MDAKit will be continuously tested.
```

Author: I’m not going merge this one yet as there is the “please continue here” incompleteness.

Author: @IAlibay could you block the pr with a request changes so that nobody is tempted to quick- merge?

Reviewer: updated

### Towards publication

The best practices that we encourage MDAKits to fulfill essentially
amount to the majority of the contribution criteria for submissions to
software-focused journals such as the [Journal Open Source
Software](https://joss.theoj.org) (JOSS). We encourage MDAKits to
consider submission to a journal such as JOSS once they meet the

> required levels of best practices. We are working towards streamlining
> the submission process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
required levels of best practices. We are working towards 
identifying means of streamlining
the journal submission process.
```
